Intro to AI1Artificial Intelligence: Introduction2Today1. The current “AI Hype”2. Important questionsa) What is artificial intelligence?b) What is intelligence?c) Is there a test for intelligence?3. What do we do in AI?4. History of AI5. An example: ElizaThe current “AI Hype” Major breakthroughs in many AI topics Thanks to a technique calledDeep Learninghttps://towardsdatascience.com/cousins-of-artificial-intelligence-dda4edc27b55Recent BreakthroughsRecent BreakthroughsRecent Breakthroughs7Today1. The current “AI Hype”2. Important questionsa) What is artificial intelligence?b) What is intelligence?c) Is there a test for intelligence?3. What do we do in AI?4. History of AI5. An example: Eliza81. What is artificial intelligence? No standard definition of AI among those working in the field AI has even been defined as:“… the collection of problems and methodologiesstudied by artificial intelligence researchers."- Luger and StubbleField9Other DefinitionsMachines that think like humans The exciting new effort to make computers think… machines with minds, in the full and literal sense (Haugeland, 1985) The automation of activities that we associate with human thinking, activities such as decision-making, problem solving, learning… (Bellmann 1978)Machines that act like humans The art of creating machines that perform functions that require intelligence when performed by people (Kurzweil, 1990) The study of how to make computers do things at which, at the moment, people are better. (Rich and Knight, 1991)Machines that think intelligently The study of mental faculties through the use of computational models (Charniak and McDermott, 1985) The study of the computations that make it possible to perceive, reason, and act (Winston, 1992)Machines that act intelligently A field of study that seeks to explain and emulate intelligent behavior in terms in terms of computational processes (Schalkoff, 1990) The branch of computer science that is concerned with the automation of intelligent behavior (Luger & Stubblefield, 1993)10Approaches to AI: Engineering VS Cognitive Approach  Engineering Approach:  Tries to find optimal solutions No matter how (not necessarily what human do) Cognitive Approach: Tries to understand the process Tries to reproduce human behavior (even if wrong result) 4 points of view: Systems that can…Cognitive approachEngineering / Rational approachBehavior act like humans act intelligentlyReasoning think like humans think intelligently11Approaches to AI: Weak VS Strong AI Weak AI : A system whose capabilities are not intended to     match or exceed the capabilities of human beings. A system can demonstrate intelligence, but does not necessarily have a mind, mental states or consciousness.  Usually, a small application with a single purpose Strong AI:  typically used in science fiction A system that matches or exceeds human intelligence.  A system that could have: consciousness, self-awareness, the ability to feel sentiments,  … Usually, a “general purpose” application capable of several tasks12Today The current “AI Hype” Important questions1. What is artificial intelligence?2. What is intelligence?3. Is there a test for intelligence?  What do we do in AI? History of AI An example: Eliza13What is Intelligence, Anyways? are you intelligent if you: can do complex arithmetic quickly? humans are bad at it … but computers are good at it can recognize a face in a picture? humans are good at it … but hard to automate in a computer hold a 15 min. conversation?  humans are good at it … but really hard to automate in a computer14What is Intelligence? intellectual vs physical capabilities a dog has a more acute sense of smell… a bat can see at night… reflex vs planned/reasoned action when the female wasp returns to her burrow with food, she first deposits it on the threshold, checks for intruders inside, and only then, if the coast is clear, carries her food inside.  but that's instinctual behavior if the food is moved a few inches away while she is inside: on emerging, she will repeat the whole procedure as often as the food is displaced.  awareness of existence (consciousness of itself)  if a system passes a test for intelligence but is not aware of it, is it intelligent?   but the only way to really know if a machine is thinking is to be the machine…source of picture http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/8/85/Cicada_Killer_Wasp.jpg19Is Deep Blue Intelligent? In 1996 and 1997 IBM's Deep Blue beat the human chess champion Kasparov in a six-games match.  But Deep Blue uses: plain brute force technique  on a massively parallel supercomputer can explore 200,000,000 positions per second (Kasparov can examine 3/sec)   Today, emphasis on more intelligent chess programs in Nov. 2006, Deep Fritz vs. Kramnik, ran on an ordinary  Intel Core 2 Duo CPUssource of image: http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/c/c6/P11_kasparov_breakout.jpg20Is Chess Playing Intelligent?“Chess is far easier than innumerable tasks performed by an infant, such as understanding a simple story, recognizing objects and their relationships, understanding speech, and so forth. For these and nearly all realistic AI problems, the brute force methods in Deep Blue are hopelessly inadequate.” – David Stork21Is Watson Intelligent? In 2011, IBM’s Watson competed on Jeopardy! Watson beat Brad Rutter, the biggest all-time money winner on Jeopardy!, and Ken Jennings, the record holder for the longest championship streak  Watson received the first prize of $1 million Watson is a question answering system... "an application of advanced Natural Language Processing, Information Retrieval, Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, and Machine Learning technologies to the field of open domain question answering”source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watson_%28artificial_intelligence_software%29Is AlphaGo Intelligent?23Today Important questions1. What is artificial intelligence?2. What is intelligence?3. Is there a test for intelligence? What do we do in AI? History of AI An example: Eliza24A Test for Intelligence… The Turing Test The “imitation game” Proposed by Alan Turing in 1950 If a human interrogator cannot tell the computer and human apart, then the computer is intelligent Measures the intelligence of a computer vs. a human Turing predicted that by 2000, a machine might have a 30% chance of fooling a person for 5 minutes25The Turing Test A human mediates between the interrogator and the machine26The Turing Test Some capabilities required to pass the Turing test: Natural Language Processing (NLP) to communicate Knowledge Representation to store knowledge Automated Reasoning  to infer new knowledge Machine Learning …27Arguments For the Turing Test Objective notion of intelligence Prevents us from arguments about the computer’s consciousness Eliminates bias in favor of humans …28Arguments Against Turing Test Not reproducible Not constructive  Machine intelligence designed w.r.t. humans test is anthropomorphic. It only tests if the subject resembles a human being.  unnecessarily restrict machines ex: x-ray vision, fast computationssource of image:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Weakness_of_Turing_test_1.jpg29Did anyone pass the Turing Test yet? The Long Bets Foundation has $20,000 bet between Mitchell Kapor, founder of Lotus Development,  and  Ray Kurzweil, inventor Kapor bets that "By 2029 no computer - or "machine intelligence" - will have passed the Turing Test. “ After more than 60 year ... <drum roll please> ... In 2014, the news reported that a chatbot passed the Turing Test!  But, Kurzweil himself is not convinced... because the test had restrictions...  the chatbot claimed to be a 13-year-old, and  one for whom English is not a first languagehttps://longbets.org/130Current Turing TestsCAPTCHA:  Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart  the system asks a user to complete a test which the computer is able to generate and grade, but not able to solve.  Because computers are unable to solve the CAPTCHA, any user entering a correct solution is presumed to be human. also known as reverse Turing test, because it is: given by a machine and targeted to a human in contrast to the Turing test that is given by a human and targeted to a machine.source of image: http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b6/Modern-captcha.jpg31Today The current “AI Hype” Important questions1. What is artificial intelligence?2. What is intelligence?3. Is there a test for intelligence? What do we do in AI? History of AI An example: ElizaWhat do we do in AI? Knowledge representation (including formal logic) Search, especially heuristic search (puzzles, games) Planning Reasoning under uncertainty, including probabilistic reasoning Learning Agent architectures Robotics and perception Natural language processing ...SearchKnowledgerep.PlanningReasoningLearningAgentRoboticsPerceptionNaturallanguage ... ExpertSystemsConstraintsatisfaction   26The Periodic Table Of AIhttps://www.datasciencecentral.com/profiles/blogs/the-periodic-table-of-ai36Successes of AI… A few years ago, all these were considered AI problems… now, no one thinks of them as AI OCR – Optical Character Recognition Speech Recognition Information Retrieval Spell checker and Grammar checker Expert Systems Data Mining Word Prediction …37Some Successes of AI… A more  pragmatic definition of AI today : "AI research is that which computing scientists do not know how to do cost-effectively today.” What do we do in AI?40Today Important questions1. What is artificial intelligence?2. What is intelligence?3. Is there a test for intelligence? What do we do in AI? History of AI An example: ElizaHistory of AIUnrealistic Predictions47Example of a Toy-World toy-world = micro-word 1973: Winograd developed SHRDLU to understand English sentences in a restricted world and carried out instructions typed in English with a robot arm.50History of AI Reality hits (late 60s - early 70s) 1966: the ALPAC report kills work in machine translation (and NLP in general) People realized that scaling up from micro-worlds (toy-worlds) to reality is not just a manner of faster machines and larger memories…  Minsky & Papert’s paper on the limits of perceptrons (cannot learn just any function…) kills work in neural networks  in 1971, the British government stops funding research in AI due to no significant results it’s the first major AI Winter…https://www.vectorstock.com/royalty-free-vector/freezing-snowman-vector-68908658Today Important questions1. What is artificial intelligence?2. What is intelligence?3. Is there a test for intelligence? What do we do in AI? History of AI An example: Eliza59Eliza Developed by Joseph Weizenbaum  In the 1960’s  Simulation of a dialogue with a psychologist  Great success at the time Led at least one psychologist to seriously suggest that computers might help alleviate the shortage of trained psychotherapists (!) Weizenbaum later questioned his own work and became one of the field’s biggest criticsGOFAI60Eliza is... An example of a simple production system(see later for a discussion of this type of systems) Example dialogs with our new psychotherapist...61Session with Eliza I am the psychotherapist.  Please, describe your problems.  Each time you are finished talking, type RET twice. I am very unhappy these days Are you unhappy often? Always after the new classes start Tell me about your classes. I am registered for artificial intelligence Why do you say you are registered for artificial intelligence? I feel I should understand more about AI Earlier you said you felt unhappy? I am unhappy because of the examinations Are you sure that is the real reason? Not really Maybe the examinations have something to do with this. This could be one of the reasons Is it because of your plans that you say this could be one of the reasons?63How does Eliza work? See Weizenbaum’s paper at: http://www.csee.umbc.edu/courses/331/papers/eliza.html“Input sentences are analyzed on the basis of decomposition rules which are triggered by key words appearing in the input text. Responses are generated by reassembly rules associated with selected decomposition rules.”http://www.csee.umbc.edu/courses/331/papers/eliza.html64Algorithm1. Identify Keywords:1. Scan the input sentence to look for words in a dictionary of keywords. 2. Keywords are given a rank, and the highest ranking keyword is considered first2. Get Decomposition Patterns1. For each keyword, there is an associated list of decomposition patterns  2. The first decomposition pattern that matches the input sentence is selected. 3. If the decomposition rule does not match, then the next best ranking keyword is selected (and go back to step 2.1). 3. Apply Reassembly Pattern1. For each decomposition rule, there is a set of associated reassembly patterns to generate a response.2. If a subsequent sentence selects the same decomposition pattern, the next reassembly pattern is used (so the output is not repetitive)4. If there is no keywords in the input sentence, then generate a canned response65Example If the input sentence is:  I am very unhappy these days. Eliza's response will be:  How long have you been very unhappy these days? Keyword:  I am Decomposition pattern:  I am <whatever> Reassembly Pattern:  How long have you been <whatever>?66A More Complex Example  Input sentence:"It seems that you hate me".  Keywords: "you" and "me“   Decomposition pattern:  <whatever1> you <whatever2> me It seems that you hate me Reassembly pattern What makes you think I hate you?notice the pronoun (me from the user --> you for Eliza)notice the pronoun (you from the user --> I for Eliza)69Today Important questions1. What is artificial intelligence?2. What is intelligence?3. Is there a test for intelligence? What do we do in AI? History of AI An example: Eliza